

# Adding internationalization

The easiest way to handle multiple languages is by creating one site per language, eg:

*   English site
*   Norwegian site
*   ...

This way all pages in your site will be the same language and it will be easier to create menus, sitemaps etc without specifying language parameters.

You will be able to use the same templates for all pages, seperating language specific text in property files and using a different design template (if needed).

See "[adding multiple sites](adding-multiple-sites.md)".

## Setting the language of a page

When your create a page, you can set the language under the "Metadata" tab.  All new pages created will inherit the language from their parent page.

Set the language of the English page(s) to English etc.

## Using language specific property files

You can create a property file with all text for your site for each language.  Two default files, "site_no.properties" and "site_en.properties" are included when you create a new project.

You can use the "kantega:label" tag to fetch texts from these property files, the tag will automatically read the language of the current page and use the right property file.

Example:

```
<kantega:label key="mytext" bundle="site"/>
```

## Using aksess:include to include different design files

You can use the $SITE or $LANGUAGE macro in the "aksess:include" tag to include a JSP with different design depending on site or language.

## Getting the locale

You can get the locale of the current page by accessing the request attribute "aksess_locale" from a JSP template:

```
<%
Locale locale = request.getAttribute("aksess_locale");
%>
```

