# Release Notes Flyt CMS 7.9.0

## Upgrade to Spring 4.2.0 (AP-1772)
Spring Framework has been upgraded from 3.2.z to 4.2.x. This may lead to some changes in your project, depending on 
whether it uses deprecated classes that now are removed. SimpleFormController with its friends is an example of 
classes that no longer exists.

## Upgrade to TinyMCE 4.0 editor (AP-1650)
The HTML-editor in admin har been upgraded from TinyMCE 3 to TinyMCE 4.
If you have any custom settings or plugins you may need to do some adjustments.

The plugins activated by default is defined in aksess-defaults.conf. These are both our own, and [standard plugins](http://www.tinymce.com/wiki.php/Plugins).
If you are using any other plugins you may want to get it up to date to TinyMCE 4, or use the [compat3x plugin](http://www.tinymce.com/wiki.php/Plugin:compat3x).

When creating own plugins it is expected that the plugin is located in */flytcms/tinymce/plugins/pluginname/plugin.min.js*

## Autosave on articles (AP-1403)
When the user is using the HTML-editor, the content is being saved regularly.

## Remove maxElements and SortOrder from methods that use ContentQuery (AP-1807)
ContentManagementService.getContentList took both ContentQuery, maxElements and SortOrder. MaxElements and SortOrder
are possible to specify on ContentQuery, so they are removed from method parameters.

## Remove Quartz (AP-1889)
Spring provides great support for scheduling jobs, making the dependency on Quartz not necessary. If you still want to use
Quartz just add the dependency directly in your project.

Otherwise use Spring's [scheduling capabilities](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/#scheduling)

## Change Master/Slave job-handling (AP-1875)
When running Flyt CMS in a multi node setup some jobs should only be run on only one of the instances, usually the master node.
The legacy way of handling this was to do *if(ServerType.SLAVE)) return;*. 
The new way of doing this is to use *@DisableOnServertype(ServerType.SLAVE)* on the method. This results in the job 
not being added to the scheduler on a node configured as ServerType.SLAVE.

## Move ServerType to api module (AP-1907)
ServerType enum has been moed from core module (package no.kantega.publishing.common.data.enums) to api module (package no.kantega.publishing.api.runtime)

## Configuration.getStrings(string) should return [] on non existing property  (AP-1893)
On nonexisting properties *null* was returned, it now return [].

## Move xml export to plugin (AP-1983)
The functionality for exporting a given content hierarchy to xml has been moved to a plugin.

## Remove TopicAssociationAO, TopicAO and TopicMapAO (AP-1996)
Use the interfaces *no.kantega.publishing.topicmaps.ao.TopicAssociationDao*, *no.kantega.publishing.topicmaps.ao.TopicDao*, *no.kantega.publishing.topicmaps.ao.TopicMapDao*. 

## Remove FormAttribute (AP-1999)
*FormAttribute* was replaced by *EditableformAttribute* long ago.

## Remove XMLCache methods from ContentManagementService (AP-2035)
*ContentManagementService* had merhods for accessing the XMLCache. These are now removed, 
use *no.kantega.publishing.api.xmlcache.XmlCache* to get the same content. 

## Do not get latest version for each script (AP-2039)
*DBMigrate* queried the database for the latest version of a schema for each migration script. If one for some reason 
is on a slow connection this takes a long time. 
Now version is fetched only on beginning og migration.

## Use maven2 standard layout (AP-1456)
Most of the modules have structure *src/java*, change to standard Maven 2 structure.

## Try to remove Xalan as dependency (AP-1695)
Apache Xalan is no longer maintained, and has been moved into the jdk. 
There are still other dependencies that use Xalan, so we where not able to get it from the class path, but all direct usages 
has been removed.

## Replace NekoHtml with Jsoup (AP-1888)
As a part of trying to remove Xalan NekoHtml had to go, so it was replaced with Jsoup.

## Upgrade to Solr 5.1.0 (AP-1886)
You should not need to do anything. Embedded server handles it self, and the Solr-Client should 
handle older versions.

## Set latest schema version when creating from archetype (AP-2034)
When creating a project from archetype it tries to run migrations. 
No migrations should be necessary, so the start version is now set to current timestamp.

## Make AttachmentAO interface with implementatjon (AP-1612)
Use *no.kantega.publishing.api.attachment.ao.AttachmentAO* where *no.kantega.publishing.common.ao.AttachmentAO* was used.

## Make AttributeDataType enum (AP-1617)
*no.kantega.publishing.common.data.enums.AttributeDataType* is made to an enum, and move to api module as
*no.kantega.publishing.api.content.attribute.AttributeDataType*

## Add ConfigurationListener to api (AP-1944)
*no.kantega.publishing.api.configuration.ConfigurationListener* is added to the api. It is possible to subclass ConfigurationListener
and get notified when the configuration is updated by registering SystemConfiguration.addConfigurationListener

## Add query escape utility to search api (AP-2012)
*no.kantega.search.api.util.QueryUtils* has been added to search-api, having a method escapeQueryChars for escaping 
 characters.

## Execute buildnumber-maven-plugin in aksess:makeversion (AP-2033)
Flyt CMS maven plugin now run buildnumber-maven-plugin as part of makeversion, fetching the current scm revision and 
storing it in aksess-webapp-version.properties.
